# Route53 Public Hosted Zone Automation at scale

This repository contains scripts for automating the creation of Route53 public hosted zones using AWS CloudFormation and Python.

## Files

### 1. `domains.txt`

**Purpose:**  
Text file containing a list of domains for which Route53 public hosted zones will be created.  

**Format:**  
Each line in the file represents a single domain.

Example `domains.txt`:
```plaintext
example1.com
example2.com
example3.com
```

### 2. `create_hosted_zones.sh`

**Purpose:**  
Bash script for automating the creation of Route 53 hosted zones for each domain listed in `domains.txt`.

**Usage:**  
Execute this script to iterate through the domains in `domains.txt` and invoke the Python script for each domain.

### 3. `create_hosted_zone.py`

**Purpose:**  
Python script for creating a Route 53 public hosted zone using AWS CloudFormation.

**Usage:**  
Run this script with a domain as an argument to create a CloudFormation stack for the specified domain.

### 4. `cloudformation_template.json`

**Purpose:**

Temporary CloudFormation template generated by the Python script for creating a Route 53 hosted zone.  

**Note:**

This file is generated dynamically during the execution of `create_hosted_zone.py`.  

**Usage:** 

Populate the `domains.txt` file with the desired domains.  
Run the `create_hosted_zones.sh` script to automate the creation of Route 53 hosted zones.  

## 
## How to use the automation in the simplest way
1. Upload all files into AWS CloudShell Environment
2. Grant permission to execute the scripts:
```plaintext
chmod +x create_hosted_zones.sh
chmod +x create_hosted_zone.py
```
3. Execute the bash script:
```plaintext
./create_hosted_zones.sh
```
